Difference between REST AND SOAP

SOAP - Simple Object Access Protocol 
SOAP is an application communication Protocol
is for sending and receiving messages 
is a platform independent 
is based on XML 
is a w3c recomentdation 

A SOAP message is an ordinary XML document containing the following elements:

An Envelope element that identifies the XML document as a SOAP message
A Header element that contains header information
A Body element that contains call and response information
A Fault element containing errors and status information

Syntax Rules
Here are some important syntax rules:

A SOAP message MUST be encoded using XML
A SOAP message MUST use the SOAP Envelope namespace
A SOAP message must NOT contain a DTD reference
A SOAP message must NOT contain XML Processing Instructions

SOAP vs REST vs GraphQL

both are type of APIs 
SOAP is a Protocols 
REST is a design pattern used in APIs
SOAP is work based on XML but REST is XML , JSON , HTML 
SOAP is used more bandwidth but rest is very lighter 


  SOAP                                             REST
1. Protocol                                       Architectural style
2. function-driven                                Data-driven access a resource for data 
   transfer structured information       
3. Only using XML                                 Permits many data formate including plain text , xml , html and json 
4. Supported ws-security and ssl                  supported ssl and http 
5. Required more resource and bandwidth           Required fewer resource and is lighweight 
6. can not be catched                             can be catched 
7. (payload Handling ) Has a strict                needs no knowledge of the api 
    communication contract and needs          
    knowledge of everthing before 
   interaction 
8. (ACID complliance)  Has build-in ACID          Lasks ACID complliance
   compllience to reduce anomalies 







SOAP is only used post for all 
content type - text/xml
1. Envelope tag 
2. body 
3. number (resource)






 Agenda 

 why we need a web servies? 
 handpump -> example costly to install every house 
 so we install a 1 handpump in areas and everyone use that handpump


why we need a web servies?
    We can develop scalable or distributed application
    Easy to maintain a application
    it makes our application faster and light-weight 
    Easy to modification and many more 

what is the meaning of web servies? 
servies (means ony data (resource))
www.app1.com/L/2022  return data 
and ab hme wo aapne application mai show krna hai 

        Request -------> <-------Response (data)

Whenever we try to access any resource over the Internet that is a web servies
resource are nothing , it's Data
A Web servies only return the "data" not a "Page"
Over the internet exchange the "data" application-to-application interaction
There two way to represent "data"
1. json 
2. xml 


what is Rest API ? 
        web servies /Rest api / RestFul web api / restful web servies / api 

        represent state transfer 
        set of constraints or Protocol
        in other word we can say Rest is a enhancement of SOAP servies
        Developed by Roy Fielding 



Type of web servies 
 SOAP based  and Rest Based 
 
HTTP Methods 
Web Application -> insert, delete , update , Read (CRUD Operations)


HTTPS verbs 
Create - post 
Read - Get 
Uodate - put 
Delete - Delete

Get -> Read only operation  (Repeat Request) | (Read) | (by URL) | ((HyperLink)Redirect Pages ) | (form Tag) | Ristriction -> queriy string  k form mai hi jata haia data ye drawback hai (query string ki limitation hoti hai  then we we go with post )
       Cashing kr skte hia and boorking kr skte hai 


Post -> Always create a new Record (Duplicate Data) (Create)
        


Put -> Terniary operator ki trh work krta hai 
       (new + update) krta hai
Delete-> Delete operation 



Non Idempotent     Idempotent 
Post               get Delete Put



RestFul APIs







Understanding URL Parameters and Queries
1. Parameters ) as it is data leke aa jata hai database se 
2. Queries ) perticular ( filtering ) data leke ane k lia 
             using syntax ? question marks also used and operator & 

Application Programable Interface

Rest API
1) response shoud be same , irrespective of request type 
2) routes shoud be on the basis of nounes
3) HTTP Methods shoud be used for doing operations in these routes 
   app.get() | app.post() | app.path() | app.patch() | app.delete()
   HTTP verbs 
4) always data in JSON formate 
5) APIs should be stateless 

Why we use REST apis 
   95% based on rest apis and community support jada hai 









